Product Engineering Automation Intern
Boulder, CO, United States
Trending
Job Description
Product Engineering Automation Intern

Come Create at Ricoh

If you are seeking a team driven by passion and purpose, come create with us at Ricoh. We are a team of information seekers and customer-obsessed collaborators who aspire to deliver the services, solutions, and technologies that empower business success. We are looking for talented, inspired individuals to join us during the summer of 2026 to help drive high-performance teams and our commitment to excellence.

The Control Unit Development department manufactures the digital front end for a market-leading high speed commercial printing press that prints on continuous forms. The control unit is a high performance computing application comprising hardware and software. It consists of a rack of Linux servers that receive print jobs in the form of job settings and page description language, for example, PDF or AFP. The control unit performs layout of pages of printed matter into sheets that are printed at high speed and resolution on a continuous substrate or web and produces digital images that are sent at high speed to the print engine while the web is in motion. Our software consists of hundreds of processes running on dozens of servers and is embodied in more than a million lines of code in C++, HTML, JavaScript, Python, and other languages. The product is rapidly evolving to meet commercial printing industry’s demand for future product enhancements, including higher resolution, higher speed, state-of-the-art improvements in print quality, and factory automation.

 Position Profile 

Our Interns will apply their education to meaningful projects in a team environment alongside a technical mentor. You will be exposed to many levels of management within our company concluding with an end of summer presentation to the executive team. Throughout the summer you will have the opportunity to acquire technical and professional skills, to participate in team building activities, and to enjoy social events in the Rocky Mountain region. 

 

Job Duties and Responsibilities

As an intern, you will work closely with your mentor and other employees within the department to apply your knowledge and grow your skills both technically and professionally.
Work with a fast-paced group of professionals to apply engineering and industry concepts to solve real challenges.
Attend frequent 1:1’s with mentors and supervisors to facilitate success and learning while providing progress updates
Work in an Agile environment and contribute to Agile ceremonies.
Recommends solutions to problems/issues that impact the project
Determines and examines software alternatives
Design, Develop, Debug, Document and Demonstrate your work
Present project overview and summary to executive team at end of internship
QUALIFICATIONS (Education, Experience, and Certifications)

Working towards - B.S., M.S., or PhD. degree in Computer Science, Computer Engineering, or a related field
Student must be currently enrolled in an accredited college or university or enrolled to continue their education in an accredited graduate program
Students must have a cumulative GPA of 3.0 or higher
Students are to successfully complete all required screenings prior to hire
 Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities:

Are fluent in one or more modern object-oriented programming languages
Java, JavaScript, C++, Python
Scripting Language: PowerShell, Windows batch(.bat), Shell scripting language
Have a firm grasp on basic data structures and algorithmic techniques
Are a quick and self-directed learner. We provide close support and mentorship, you will contribute to the design, plan, and implementation of what you build.
General prototyping skills
Strong debugging and analytical skills, a problem solver’s attitude
Ability to work both independently and in a collaborative team environment
Effectively uses teamwork skills to interact and collaborate on technical issues with mentor / team
Positively contributes to a high morale/high-performance team culture
Prior experience with AWS, Cloud-based software, Database software, web service API’s and backend programming, and parallel processing in Python and/or Java is strongly desired.
WORKING CONDITIONS, MENTAL AND PHYSICAL DEMANDS

Typically works in an office environment with adequate lighting and ventilation, and a normal range of temperature and noise level. 
Work assignments are diversified. Interpret, comprehend and apply complex material, data and instruction. 
Prepare, provide and convey diversified information.
Minimal physical effort required. Work is mostly sedentary but does require walking, standing, bending, reaching, lifting or carrying objects that typically with less than 10 lbs. (e.g., papers, books, files and small parts, etc.). 
Moderate dexterity. 
Regular application of basic skills (calculator, keyboard, hand tools, eye/hand coordination.
The above statements are intended to describe the general nature and level of work being performed by people assigned to this job. They are not intended to be an exhaustive list of all responsibilities, skills, efforts or working conditions associated with a job. 

Ricoh is an EEO/Affirmative Action Employer -- Minorities/Women/Protected Veterans/Disabled.

About Us
Come Create at Ricoh:

If you are seeking a team driven by passion and purpose, come create with us at Ricoh. We are a team of information seekers and customer-obsessed collaborators who aspire to deliver the services, solutions, and technologies that empower business success. We are looking for talented, inspired individuals to join us to help drive high-performance team and our commitment to excellence.

Ricoh is an integrated solutions provider and partner that connects people and technology, creates outstanding customer experiences, and delivers innovation for businesses worldwide. We empower digital workplaces by enabling individuals to work smarter from any location and harness the power of information—how it is collected, stored, managed, and shared—to unlock the potential in every organization. We deliver services and technologies that inspire our customers’ success and guide them toward a better and more sustainable future. If you are seeking a purpose-driven and passionate team, come create with us, and help drive our high-performance culture of excellence into tomorrow.

Invest in Yourself:

At Ricoh, you can:

Choose from a broad selection of medical, dental, life, and disability insurance options.
Contribute to your financial security with Retirement Savings Plan (401K), Health Savings Account (HSA), and Flexible Spending Account (FSA) investments.
Augment your education with team member tuition assistance programs.
Enjoy paid vacation time and paid holidays annually
Tap into many other benefits to enhance your health, wellness, and ongoing personal and professional development.