Applied Machine Learning and AI Engineering Intern
Boulder, CO, United States (Hybrid)
Trending
Job Description
Applied Machine Learning and AI Engineering Intern 

 

Come Create at Ricoh

If you are seeking a team driven by passion and purpose, come create with us at Ricoh. We are a team of information seekers and customer-obsessed collaborators who aspire to deliver the services, solutions, and technologies that empower business success. We are looking for talented, inspired individuals to join us during the summer of 2026 to help drive high-performance teams and our commitment to excellence.

Ricoh is an integrated solutions provider and partner that connects people and technology, creates outstanding customer experiences, and delivers innovation for businesses worldwide. We empower digital workplaces by enabling individuals to work smarter from any location and harness the power of information—how it is collected, stored, managed, and shared—to unlock the potential in every organization. We deliver services and technologies that inspire our customers’ success and guide them toward a better and more sustainable future. If you are seeking a purpose-driven and passionate team, come create with us, and help drive our high-performance culture of excellence into tomorrow.

INTERN POSITION DESCRIPTION 

Ricoh is seeking a highly motivated summer intern to support an innovative project aimed at transforming how documentation is accessed and utilized. This internship will focus on leveraging AI to improve the availability and accuracy of documentation, ultimately enhancing customer satisfaction.

POSITION PROFILE

The Intern will gain hands-on work experience by participating in work projects in the focus areas of Ricoh Graphic Communications. They will assist in the completion of projects while learning in a professional environment.

JOB DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

Supports the specific functional area on special projects.
Works closely with assigned manager to learn and understand the diverse issues of the assigned function.
Researches, provides analysis, and offers solutions relating to a variety of functional projects.
Assists with daily activities of assigned function.
May perform a variety of tasks at the direction of the management team.
Performs other duties as assigned.
QUALIFICATIONS (Education, Experience, and Certifications)

Student must be currently enrolled in an accredited college or university or enrolled to continue their education in an accredited graduate program.
Master's candidate in in Computer Science or Electrical Engineering with an emphasis in ML/AI preferred.
Student should be pursuing a degree in a related major in the department of interest and possess some former work or internship experience.
Student must have a cumulative GPA of 3.0 or higher.
Student is to successfully complete all required screenings prior to hire.
KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS AND ABILITIES

Required Skills:

Pursuing a Master's degree in Computer Science, Data Science, AI/ML, or a related field.
Strong analytical and problem-solving skills.
Familiarity with AI/ML concepts and data processing.
Ability to work independently and collaborate with a team.
Interest in technical documentation, AI-driven solutions, and process optimization.
Excellent programming skills in Python, with good understanding of data structures, software design principles and algorithms.
Preferred Skills: 

Skilled in explaining and presenting analyses and machine learning concepts to a broad technical audience.
Hands-on experience working with deep learning toolkits such as Tensorflow and Keras.
Excellent programming skills using C/C++.
WORKING CONDITIONS, MENTAL AND PHYSICAL DEMANDS

Typically works in an office environment with adequate lighting and ventilation, and a normal range of temperature and noise level. 
Work assignments are diversified. Interpret, comprehend and apply complex material, data and instruction.
prepare, provide and convey diversified information.
Minimal physical effort required. Work is mostly sedentary but does require walking, standing, bending, reaching, lifting or carrying objects that typically with less than 10 lbs. (e.g., papers, books, files and small parts, etc.).
Moderate dexterity. 
regular application of basic skills (calculator, keyboard, hand tools, eye/hand coordination.
The above statements are intended to describe the general nature and level of work being performed by people assigned to this job. They are not intended to be an exhaustive list of all responsibilities, skills, efforts or working conditions associated with a job.

Ricoh is an EEO/Affirmative Action Employer -- Minorities/Women/Protected Veterans/Disabled.

 

About Us
Come Create at Ricoh:

If you are seeking a team driven by passion and purpose, come create with us at Ricoh. We are a team of information seekers and customer-obsessed collaborators who aspire to deliver the services, solutions, and technologies that empower business success. We are looking for talented, inspired individuals to join us to help drive high-performance team and our commitment to excellence.

Ricoh is an integrated solutions provider and partner that connects people and technology, creates outstanding customer experiences, and delivers innovation for businesses worldwide. We empower digital workplaces by enabling individuals to work smarter from any location and harness the power of information—how it is collected, stored, managed, and shared—to unlock the potential in every organization. We deliver services and technologies that inspire our customers’ success and guide them toward a better and more sustainable future. If you are seeking a purpose-driven and passionate team, come create with us, and help drive our high-performance culture of excellence into tomorrow.

Invest in Yourself:

At Ricoh, you can:

Choose from a broad selection of medical, dental, life, and disability insurance options.
Contribute to your financial security with Retirement Savings Plan (401K), Health Savings Account (HSA), and Flexible Spending Account (FSA) investments.
Augment your education with team member tuition assistance programs.
Enjoy paid vacation time and paid holidays annually
Tap into many other benefits to enhance your health, wellness, and ongoing personal and professional development.